updated oracle information (#2500)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/oracles/index.md

## What is an oracle {#what-is-an-oracle}

> An oracle is a bridge between the blockchain and the real world. They act as on-chain APIs you can query to get information into your smart contracts. This could be anything from price information to weather reports. Oracles are also bi-directional, and they can also be used to "send" data out to the real world. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An oracle is a bridge between the blockchain and the real world. They act as on-chain APIs you can query to get information into your smart contracts. This could be anything from price information to weather reports. Oracles can also be bi-directional, used to "send" data out to the real world. 
```

3. The off-chain service proceeds to do some tasks as defined by the log. 
4. The off-chain service responds with the data requested in a secondary transaction. 

This is how to get data in a 1 to 1 manner, however you will want to get your data in a decentralized manner, otherwise the design of your smart contract is centralized by nature of it's data.

So the next step would be to have a network of these nodes making these calls to different APIs and sources, and aggregagted on-chain.

[Chainlink Off-Chain Reporting](https://blog.chain.link/off-chain-reporting-live-on-mainnet/) (Chainlink OCR) has improved on this methodology by having the off-chain oracle network communicate with each other, cryptographically signed their responses, and send only 1 transaction on-chain having aggreagated their responses off-chain. This way, fewer gas is spent, but you still get the guarantee of decentralized data since every node has signed their part of the transaction, making it unchangeable by the node sending the transaction. If the node doesn't transact, the escalation policy kicks in, and the next node sends the transaction. 
## Usage {#usage}

### Oracles {#oracles}

> Chainlink is the way to get data already decentralized and on chain, and build your own modular oracle networks to get any customized data you're looking for. Chainlink has infrastructure in place to:

Reviewer 2: (missing hyphen in "on-chain")
Also, feel this sentence reads a little strange, perhaps:
`Chainlink is a way to get already decentralized, on-chain data, and build...`

Author: Good point.. updating

- [Get crypto price feeds in your contract](https://chain.link/solutions/defi)
- [Generate verifiable random numbers (useful for gaming)](https://chain.link/solutions/chainlink-vrf)
- [Call external APIs](https://docs.chain.link/docs/request-and-receive-data) 

> – one novel use of this is [checking wBTC reserves](https://cointelegraph.com/news/1b-in-wrapped-bitcoin-now-being-audited-using-chainlink-s-proof-of-reserve)

Reviewer 2: Could we capitalize this last bullet with the others?

Author: Yes

An oracle is only as secure as its data source(s). If a dapp uses Uniswap as an oracle for its ETH/DAI price feed, it is possible for an attacker to move the price on Uniswap in order to manipulate the dapp's understanding of the current price. An example of how to combat this is [a feed system](https://developer.makerdao.com/feeds/) like the one used by MakerDAO, which collates price data from a number of external price feeds instead of just relying on a single source.

### Architecture {#architecture}

This is an example of a simple Oracle architecture, but there are more ways than this to trigger off-chain computation. 

1. Emit a log with your [smart contract event](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/anatomy/#events-and-logs)
2. An off-chain service has subscribed (usually using something like the JSON-RPC `eth_subscribe` command) to these specific logs. 
3. The off-chain service proceeds to do some tasks as defined by the log. 

> 4. The off-chain service responds with the data requested in a secondary transaction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The off-chain service responds with the data requested in a secondary transaction to the smart contract. 
```

> This is how to get data in a 1 to 1 manner, however you will want to decentralize how you collect your off-chain data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is how to get data in a 1 to 1 manner, however to improve security you may want to decentralize how you collect your off-chain data.
```

> So the next step would be to have a network of these nodes making these calls to different APIs and sources, and aggregagting on-chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step might be to have a network of these nodes making these calls to different APIs and sources, and aggregating the data on-chain.
```

> [Chainlink Off-Chain Reporting](https://blog.chain.link/off-chain-reporting-live-on-mainnet/) (Chainlink OCR) has improved on this methodology by having the off-chain oracle network communicate with each other, cryptographically sign their responses, and send only 1 transaction on-chain having aggreagated their responses off-chain. This way, fewer gas is spent, but you still get the guarantee of decentralized data since every node has signed their part of the transaction, making it unchangeable by the node sending the transaction. If the node doesn't transact, the escalation policy kicks in, and the next node sends the transaction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Chainlink Off-Chain Reporting](https://blog.chain.link/off-chain-reporting-live-on-mainnet/) (Chainlink OCR) has improved on this methodology by having the off-chain oracle network communicate with each other, cryptographically sign their responses, aggregate their responses off-chain, and send only 1 transaction on-chain with the result. This way, fewer gas is spent but you still get the guarantee of decentralized data since every node has signed their part of the transaction, making it unchangeable by the node sending the transaction. If the node doesn't transact, the escalation policy kicks in, and the next node sends the transaction. 
```

## Usage {#usage}

> ### Oracles {#oracles}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Using Chainlink, you can reference decentralized data on-chain, that has already been pulled from the real world and aggregated. Sort of like a public commons, but for decentralized data. You can also build your own modular oracle networks to get any customized data you're looking for. In addition, you can do off-chain computation and send information to the real world as well. Chainlink has infrastructure in place to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using services like Chainlink, you can reference decentralized data on-chain, that has already been pulled from the real world and aggregated. Sort of like a public commons, but for decentralized data. You can also build your own modular oracle networks to get any customized data you're looking for. In addition, you can do off-chain computation and send information to the real world as well. Chainlink has infrastructure in place to:
```

- [Get crypto price feeds in your contract](https://chain.link/solutions/defi)
- [Generate verifiable random numbers (useful for gaming)](https://chain.link/solutions/chainlink-vrf)
- [Call external APIs](https://docs.chain.link/docs/request-and-receive-data) 
– One novel use of this is [Checking wBTC reserves](https://cointelegraph.com/news/1b-in-wrapped-bitcoin-now-being-audited-using-chainlink-s-proof-of-reserve)

This is an example of how to get the latest ETH price in your smart contract using a Chainlink price feed:

> ## Chainlink Data Feeds {#chainlink-data-feeds}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Chainlink Data Feeds {#chainlink-data-feeds}
```

### Oracles {#oracles}

Using Chainlink, you can reference decentralized data on-chain, that has already been pulled from the real world and aggregated. Sort of like a public commons, but for decentralized data. You can also build your own modular oracle networks to get any customized data you're looking for. In addition, you can do off-chain computation and send information to the real world as well. Chainlink has infrastructure in place to:

- [Get crypto price feeds in your contract](https://chain.link/solutions/defi)
- [Generate verifiable random numbers (useful for gaming)](https://chain.link/solutions/chainlink-vrf)
- [Call external APIs](https://docs.chain.link/docs/request-and-receive-data) 
– one novel use of this is [Checking wBTC reserves](https://cointelegraph.com/news/1b-in-wrapped-bitcoin-now-being-audited-using-chainlink-s-proof-of-reserve)

> 

Reviewer 2: @PatrickAlphaC Oops, hah.. I guess what I meant was `One novel use of this is [checking wBTC...`

Author: Oh lol

Author: Fixed

}
```

[You can test this in remix with this link](https://remix.ethereum.org/#version=soljson-v0.6.7+commit.b8d736ae.js&optimize=false&evmVersion=null&gist=0c5928a00094810d2ba01fd8d1083581)

[View the docs](https://docs.chain.link/docs/get-the-latest-price)

> ## Chainlink VRF {#chainlink-vrf}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Chainlink VRF {#chainlink-vrf}
```

     * Network: Kovan
     * Chainlink VRF Coordinator address: 0xdD3782915140c8f3b190B5D67eAc6dc5760C46E9
     * LINK token address:                0xa36085F69e2889c224210F603D836748e7dC0088
     * Key Hash: 0x6c3699283bda56ad74f6b855546325b68d482e983852a7a82979cc4807b641f4
     */
    constructor() 
        VRFConsumerBase(
            0xdD3782915140c8f3b190B5D67eAc6dc5760C46E9, // VRF Coordinator
            0xa36085F69e2889c224210F603D836748e7dC0088  // LINK Token
        ) public
    {
        keyHash = 0x6c3699283bda56ad74f6b855546325b68d482e983852a7a82979cc4807b641f4;
        fee = 0.1 * 10 ** 18; // 0.1 LINK (varies by network)
    }
    
    /** 
     * Requests randomness from a user-provided seed
     */
    function getRandomNumber(uint256 userProvidedSeed) public returns (bytes32 requestId) {
        require(LINK.balanceOf(address(this)) >= fee, "Not enough LINK - fill contract with faucet");
        return requestRandomness(keyHash, fee, userProvidedSeed);
    }

    /**
     * Callback function used by VRF Coordinator
     */
    function fulfillRandomness(bytes32 requestId, uint256 randomness) internal override {
        randomResult = randomness;
    }
}
```

> ## Chainlink API Call {#chainlink-api-call}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Chainlink API Call {#chainlink-api-call}
```

        
        // Set the URL to perform the GET request on
        request.add("get", "https://min-api.cryptocompare.com/data/pricemultifull?fsyms=ETH&tsyms=USD");
        
        // Set the path to find the desired data in the API response, where the response format is:
        // {"RAW":
        //   {"ETH":
        //    {"USD":
        //     {
        //      "VOLUME24HOUR": xxx.xxx,
        //     }
        //    }
        //   }
        //  }
        request.add("path", "RAW.ETH.USD.VOLUME24HOUR");
        
        // Multiply the result by 1000000000000000000 to remove decimals
        int timesAmount = 10**18;
        request.addInt("times", timesAmount);
        
        // Sends the request
        return sendChainlinkRequestTo(oracle, request, fee);
    }
    
    /**
     * Receive the response in the form of uint256
     */ 
    function fulfill(bytes32 _requestId, uint256 _volume) public recordChainlinkFulfillment(_requestId)
    {
        volume = _volume;
    }
}
```

You can learn more about the applications of chainlink by reading [the developers blog](https://blog.chain.link/tag/developers/).

> #### Oracle services {#other-services}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Oracle services {#other-services}
```

## Further reading {#further-reading}

> - [What is a Blockchain Oracle?](https://betterprogramming.pub/what-is-a-blockchain-oracle-f5ccab8dbd72) - _Patrick Collins_

Reviewer 2: 👍 Nice article!

Author: Thank you :D
